.Dd August 8, 2024
.Dt WG_TO_HOSTNAME_IF 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wg_to_hostname_if
.Nd translate WireGuard configuration file to hostname.if(5)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm wg_to_hostname_if
.Op Fl hr
.Op Fl m Ar mtu
.Op Fl t Ar rtable
.Op Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility processes a WireGuard configuration
.Ar file ,
validating its contents and printing its
.Xr hostname.if 5
counterpart to standard output.
If
.Ar file
is a single dash
.Pq Sq -
or absent,
.Nm
reads from the standard input.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Print usage information and exit.
.It Fl m Ar mtu
Add a line to the output that specifies the MTU (Maximum
Transmission Unit) of the interface. By default, a WireGuard interface
has an MTU of 1420.
.It Fl r
Add
.Xr route 8
commands to the output so that the WireGuard interface will hold
the default routes.
.It Fl t Ar rtable
Add a wgrtable line to the output so that
.Ar rtable
will be used to exchange traffic between peers rather than the
default
.Xr rtable 4 .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Parse the WireGuard file and print the translated contents to standard
output.
.Pp
.Dl $ wg_to_hostname_if wireguard-file.conf
.Pp
In the output, add routing commands and a line specifying that
rtable 1 will be the routing table used to exchange traffic between
peers. Redirect the output to
.Ar hostname.wg0
and bring the interface up with
.Xr netstart 8 .
.Pp
.Dl # wg_to_hostname_if -rt 1 wireguard-file.conf > /etc/hostname.wg0
.Dl # sh /etc/netstart wg0
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr wg 4 ,
.Xr rtable 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8 ,
.Xr netstart 8
.Sh AUTHORS
Written and maintained by
.An Ashlen Aq Mt dev@anthes.is .
.Sh CAVEATS
When using 
.Fl r ,
.Nm 
will only print default route commands for the first IPv4 and IPv6
addresses it encounters.
.Pp
Only client WireGuard configuration files are supported.
